A Web-Based Project Alert System1. ABSTRACT

Over the years, human endeavors had experienced series of growth and development attributed to information technology. The technological education can further be advanced by engaging this information technology in monitoring the final year student project. It is a common phenomenon in higher institutions of learning that final year student’s projects are often managed and present the same to their supervisors without the knowledge of the same. This had caused so many duplications of projects words for words, year in, year out and laziness on the part of the students replicating work without originality. This trend contributed to the poor technological skills of graduates produced in many institutions today which invariably also impact on the society at large. In this research, a web based student project duplication detection application software was developed to monitor projects that had been implemented before to enable supervisors detect repetitive projects and guide the student right to conduct original and unique projects that will advance the technological skill of the student as well as improve technological advancement of our great nation.
3.2 DISADVANTAGES



•	Very difficult to find duplicate 

•	Time consuming process

•	Accuracy Less

•	No effective software to detect duplicate topic.
.4 ADVANTAGES



•	Main aim to avoid project duplication

•	Improve education system quality

•	User friendly 

•	More accurate result.
7. MODULES 

1. Authentication process

2. Student enrollment

3. Synopsis uploads process

4. Duplication detection process 

5. Sms channel integration:

7. Sms based intimation

MODULES DESCRIPTION

1. Authentication process

The first module is the authentication module. Using this module the admin and student, get login into the application. Based on the role, the mobile application page will be navigated.

2. Student enrollment

   	Using this module student  can register in the registration form he has to fill with personal details such as name, address, mobile number mail id and username, first name and last name, class etc. This will maintain in a separate table .student user can log on this web application effective manner.

3. Synopsis uploads process

	This module fully based on student control. After successful authentication they can able to post title and abstract along with department details. These all the details maintain separate table. Once student upload document means this document goes to admin for verification purpose.	

4. Duplication detection process 

  Admin can view student upload synopsis after that admin can check duplication with the help from previous data base information. This application pattern matching technique will compare upload content with database content and finally it will be show duplication percentage level easy and effective manner. After that admin can decide whether need to accept or not based on this percentage.



5. Sms channel integration:

SMS channel module is the gateway for sending and receiving SMS. This enables the communication between student and admin. This module performs communication setting in order to send and receive SMS. 

All messages which are sent by the students will be stored in SIM memory and that will be extracted and stored in to the database. Every message will be stored in memory with a unique index. This module is an object of type GSM Communication which is required for sending and receiving messages. This module helps to set the Communication port, Baud rate and time out for the Communication object of type GSM communication. 

7. Sms based intimation 	

For every process notifications and push messages are used. So this module integrates with SMS server to send the service messages. So that student will get conformation or rejection intimation through sms service. 

